.\" syntorxdecode.1, Boone, 07/28/02
.\" Documentation for the syntorxdecode program
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Dennis Boone, East Lansing, MI
.\"
.\" Modifications:
.\" 07/28/02 Boone      Initial coding
.\" End Modifications
.\"
.\" This file is part of syntorxgen.
.\"
.\" Syntorxgen is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
.\" by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Syntorxgen is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with syntorxgen; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.TH syntorxdecode 1 "July 2002" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
syntorxdecode \- Decipher code plugs for conventional Syntor X radios
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syntorxdecode [-LVUW8hs] [-f
.I input-file
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Syntorxgen
reads a code plug in plain hex or Motorola S-record format.  An input
file suitable for feeding to syntorxgen, and describing the contents
of the code plug, is generated.
.LP
For copious information on working with Syntor X radios, see
.IR http://www.open.org/~blenderm/syntorx/ .
.LP
For details of the contents of a Syntor X code plug, see
.IR http://home.xnet.com/~pakman/syntor/syntorx.htm .
.LP
The author's knowledge of these radios has come largely from these
sources, and from Motorola manuals.  Any errors are mine, not theirs.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -L
The input code plug was generated for a low band radio.
.IP -V
The input code plug was generated for a high band radio.
.IP -U
The input code plug was generated for a UHF range 1 radio.
.IP -W
The input code plug was generated for a UHF range 2-5 radio.
.IP -8
The input code plug was generated for an 800 MHz radio.
.IP -h
Read simple hex format output.  (default)
.IP -s
Read Motorola S-record format output.
.IP "-f input-file"
Read the hex representation of the code plug from
.I input-file
instead of standard input.
.SH "INPUT FORMATS"
.LP
.BR Syntorxdecode
is capable of reading two input file formats.  The first is the
Motorola S-record, a well known, and widely supported transfer format.
The second is a simple hex dump format.  The latter places sixteen hex
pairs per line, with a single space in between.  There are no headers,
and all files are assumed to start at offset 0.
.LP
If you need utilities to convert between various hex formats, you might
be interested in Peter Miller's Srecord package.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH BUGS
Doubtless there are many.
.SH AUTHOR
Dennis Boone <jm-sxg at yagi.h-net.msu.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR syntorxgen (1),
.BR syntorxgen (5)
