.\" syntorxgen.1, Boone, 07/23/02
.\" Documentation for the syntorxgen program
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Dennis Boone, East Lansing, MI
.\"
.\" Modifications:
.\" 07/23/02 Boone      Initial coding
.\" End Modifications
.\"
.\" This file is part of syntorxgen.
.\"
.\" Syntorxgen is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
.\" by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Syntorxgen is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with syntorxgen; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.TH syntorxgen 1 "July 2002" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
syntorxgen \- Generate code plugs for conventional Syntor X radios
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syntorxgen [-dhsxy] [-o
.I output-file
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Syntorxgen
reads a text file describing the contents of the desired code plug
from standard input.  A hex representation of the code plug is generated.
.LP
For copious information on working with Syntor X radios, see
.IR http://www.open.org/~blenderm/syntorx/ .
.LP
For details of the contents of a Syntor X code plug, see
.IR http://home.xnet.com/~pakman/syntor/syntorx.htm .
.LP
The author's knowledge of these radios has come largely from these
sources, and from Motorola manuals.  Any errors are mine, not theirs.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Generate debugging output.
.IP -h
Print usage information.
.IP -s
Generate Motorola S-record format output.
.IP -x
Generate simple hex format output.  (default)
.IP -y
Cause the parser to generate debugging output.  Only really useful to
those who understand yacc parsers.
.IP "-o output-file"
Write the hex representation of the code plug to
.I output-file
instead of standard output.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Many error messages provide a line number location for the error they
describe.  The line numbers are generally accurate, and will help you
to locate the error in your input file.
.IP "%s on line %d"
A generic parser error message which is hopefully self-explanatory.
.IP "mode %d is larger than MAXMODES (%d) at line %d"
The input file contains a mode statement specified a mode number which
is larger than the maximum allowed number of modes.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting global config statements at line %d"
An unrecognized word was found in the input file where a global keyword
was expected.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting left brace at line %d"
A left brace is required after "MODE n", but it was omitted.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting mode config statements at line %d"
An unrecognized word was found in the input file where a mode configuration
keyword was expected.
.IP "timeout value %d invalid at line %d; must be 0-465, evenly divisible
by 15 seconds"
Timeout values can be infinite (0), or anything between 15 seconds and
7 minutes 45 seconds.  Timeout values are specified in seconds.  They
must be evenly divisible by 15.
.IP "reference frequency %d is invalid at line %d"
Valid reference frequencies are 41656, 5000 and 6250.
.IP "unexpected token %s at line %d"
The specified word was found in a place it is not allowed.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting an integer at line %d"
A whole number was expected, but something else was found.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting scan type at line %d"
The program was processing a SCANTYPE directive, and the next word
should have been NONE, NONPRI, SGLPRI, and DBLPRI, but was not.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting YES or NO at line %d"
The program was processing a TXDPLINV, TXMPL, RXDPLINV, RXMPL,
or TBSCAN directive, and the next word should have been YES or NO,
but was not.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting SELECTABLE or FIXED at line %d"
The program was processing an NPSCANSOURCE directive, and the next
word should have been SELECTABLE or FIXED, but was not.
.IP "unexpected token %s; expecting squelch type at line %d"
The program was processing a SQUELCHTYPE directive, and the next word
should have been STDSTD, ANDSTD or ANDOR, but was not.
.IP "usage: ..."
Improper command line arguments were provided.  The message provides a
summary of correct command line usage.
.IP "invalid character %c at line %d"
The only characters which may appear in an input file are: sharps (#),
semicolons, curly braces, digits, upper or lower case alphabetics,
spaces and tabs.  The exception is inside of comments, where any
character is allowed.
.IP "not implemented yet"
Proper selection of v-bits is not implemented for low-band radios.  It
should be completed Real Soon Now (TM).
.IP "no valid ref. frequencies for %g"
The specified transmit or receive frequency cannot be programmed into a
Syntor X radio, because it is not evenly divisible by a reference frequency
of 5000 or 6250 Hz.
.IP "using ref. frequency of %g for %g"
The specified reference frequency will be used to generate the specified
transmit or receive frequency.  This message appears if the default or
user-specified global or per-mode reference frequency cannot be used and
must be changed.
.IP "tx pl code %f is invalid, using 254.1"
The specified transmit PL frequency is not standard.  The program has
substituted 254.1 to annoy you.  Note that nearly any transmit PL frequency
betwen about 18 Hz and 907 Hz, or any receive frequency between about
62 Hz and 267 Hz can be programmed into the radio.  However, the filters
in the radio may limit what you can actually achieve.  The program currently
uses a table to enforce use of only standard PL codes.
.IP "rx pl code %f is invalid, using 254.1"
See "tx pl code %f is invalid..." above.
.IP "tot of %d seconds is too large, using 15 seconds"
The specified timeout value is too large.  Timeouts may be infinite (0), 
or 15-765 seconds.
.IP "invalid argument"
The program has a bug related to handling the
.B -o
command line option.
.IP "out of memory"
Your system is overloaded.
.LP
The program may also fail as it attempts to handle the
.B -o
command line option for any of the reasons listed in the man pages
for the 
.BR open (2) ,
.BR fclose (3)
or
.BR fflush (3)
subroutines.
.SH BUGS
Doubtless there are many.
.SH AUTHOR
Dennis Boone <jm-sxg at yagi.h-net.msu.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR syntorxgen (5),
.BR syntorxdecode (1)
